Braised Lamb Shank
Lamb Shanks
Salt
Pepper
Carrot (rough chop)
Celery (rough chop)
Onion (rough chop)
Garlic gloves
Tomato Paste
Red Wine
Dried Figs
Rosemary
Thyme
Beef Stock

Preheat oven to 350 degrees
Season lamb shanks
Sear lamb shanks in a heavy bottom rondo, once desired coloured is achieved on all side remove lamb shanks and put aside in a hotel pan
Using the same rondo saute off vegetables until colour develops
Deglaze pan with wine and stir
Add herbs and figs followed by beef stock
Bring to boil
Once a boil has been reached pour the liquid into the hotel pan (be sure to cover at least 2/3rds of the lamb shank
Cover the lamb shank with aluminum foil
Place the hotel pan into the oven and allow to braise for approximately 2.5-3 hours or until fork tender. Allow to fully cool before use
Strain and reserve cooking liquid

Caramelized Onion Polenta
Yellow Onion (julienned)
Butter
Coca cola
Chicken Stock
Corn Meal
Cheddar Cheese (shredded)
Salt & Pepper
Heavy Cream

Saute the onion in some butter until colour develops and it becomes sweet
Deglaze the pan with coca cola
 Add chicken stock and bring to a simmer
Slowly mix in the cornmeal until thick, add stock if necessary. 72 degrees Celsius for at least 15 seconds
Once cornmeal is soft, add cheddar cheese and heavy cream 
Season with salt and pepper

Romanesco Broccoli
Butter
Romanesco
	
Bring a pot of salted water to a boil
Boil the romanesco until tender 
Shock and store. Saute the romanesco in butter to bring to serving temperature

Fig Demi
Lamb Trim
Calimyrna Figs, halved
Red Onion, rough cop
Whole Garlic Cloves
Red Wine
Balsamic Vinegar
Bay Leaves
Fresh Thyme Sprigs
Whole Black Peppercorns
Veal Demi GlaceWater
Kosher Salt
Fresh Ground Black Pepper

Roast lamb trimmings in a shallow hotel pan for 30 minutes @ 375°F
Wrap fig halves in cheesecloth. Place the roasted lamb & figs in a sauce pan with onions and garlic, saute on medium-high heat until caramelization 
Deglaze with red wine and balsamic vinegar
Add bay leaves, thyme and peppercorns 
Reduce by half
Add the veal demi and water, bring to boil
Reduce and simmer for 15 minutes
Strain through a chinois, save the figs
Return the liquid to stove, simmer and reduce
Season to taste
Add the figs and cool
Transfer to clean food storage container, label, date, chill, wrap/cover and store

Toasted Bread Crumbs
Breadcrumbs

Bake bread crumbs until golden brown

Rosemary Sprig
Pick Rosemary

Sprinkle above as a garnish
Component Parts
Braised lamb shank
Caramelized Onion Polenta
Romanesco Broccoli
Fig Demi
Cooking Methods
Braised Lamb Shank
Braising: is a combination-cooking method that uses both wet and dry heats: typically, the food is first sautéed or seared at a high temperature, then finished in a covered pot at a lower temperature while sitting in some amount of liquid which is typically 2/3rd.
Caramelized Onion Polenta
Caramelizing: cook or be cooked so as to develop the characteristic brown color and nutty flavor of caramel
Romanesco Broccoli
Par Boiling: To partly cook food in a pot of boiling water (usually salted)
Saute: to cook small pieces in a small amount of fat at medium-high heat while moving the pieces around
Fig Demi
Reduction: to evaporate water from a liquid mixture to both thicken and develop a more concentrated flavour

Minimum Internal Temperatures
The braised lamb shank should have an internal temperature of 71 degrees celsius
The polenta should have an internal temperature of at least 72 degrees celsius for at least 15 seconds
The romanesco should have an internal temperature of at least 72 degrees celsius for at least 15 seconds
The fig demi should have an internal temperature of 100 degrees celsius
Quality Standards
The lamb should be fork tender and fully cooked with an internal temperature of 130 degrees Celsius. Should be cooked evenly with browning on the outside.
		
The texture is creamy and the individual grains are tender. The colour should be a darker shade of yellow and the polenta should be slightly loose

The romanesco should retain the color and be a bit sweeter.

The demi should be rich in flavour and have a nice thick consistency, should be ½ of the original volume. Should gelatinize when cooled.
Holding Method
Chill/Cooling Method & Temperature
Separate jus from lamb shanks ‘
Cool down separately until it has reached an internal temperature of under 4 degrees Celsius 
Combine both when both are cooled down
 Blast chill until it has reached an internal temperature of 4 degrees Celsius, cover and store
Shock until all the romanesco is ice cold around 0 degrees Celsius, cover and store
Blast chill until an internal temperature of under 4 degrees Celsius is  achieved cover and store



Storage Location and Temperature 	
Store the lamb shanks and the jus in the walk-in cooler with other meats at 0-4 degrees Celsius
Store the polenta in the walk-in cooler at 0-4 degrees Celsius
Store the romanesco in the walk in cooler at 0-4 degrees Celsius
Store the demi in the walk in cooler at 0-4 degrees Celsius

Quality Standards of Finished Product
The lamb should be hot and fork tender. The entire outside of the lamb should be seared and browned. The polenta should be a nice golden-yellow colour should be thick and smooth. There should not be a grainy texture coming from the polenta as it should have been cooked out properly. The romesco should be slightly coloured, glossy because its covered in butter and tender. The demi glace should be thick, dark colour and deep in flavour. The lamb should be garnished with bread crumbs that have developed colour and a nice fresh rosemary sprig. The flavours of the dish should be multi layered and well developed. The bread crumbs should add a nice crunchy texture to the soft and tender lamb shanks. The demi should coat the lamb shanks to enhance the mouth feel and moisture, it should also elevate the flavour bringing it to a new high that would be unreachable without the deep complex flavour of the well prepared demi. The onion polenta and slightly caramelized romanesco adds a sweeter taste to entertain more of the palette without overpowering the lamb shanks. The dish should be very rich in flavour and tender with the sweet/savoury accompaniments of romanesco and polenta.
